Hello and welcome back to the course and by programming in today's Sterle we will create some lists
.
So we spoke about how lists work and what they are in the previous tutorial.
Now it's time to get our hands dirty and do some practice.
So let's get started.
I'm going to name this notebook.
Let's create some lists.
And here we just going to start off by creating a very simple list was called My first list equals and
to create a list we just need to use the square brackets.
And in the square brackets we'll just type in some numbers that are going to be the contents of all
lists a list as we remember is a data structure.
So that is how we're going to be storing that information.
So now if I want to ever look at my list I just typed in its name and it prints out those elements that
we put in there and we can also check what's typed this data structure is.
My first list and you'll see that it returns a list indeed.
So this is a bit different to our if you're coming from R there a list or a vector in our would have
a type of the specific elements that it contains.
Because in Python a list can contain a mix of data types.
You can't just say that this list has type integer type a string or boolean because it can contain different
types and that's exactly what you look at now.
So let's say let's create a list to two equals hello then let's put a number.
So we get a string we're going to put a number let's put a boolean and let's put a as an integer.
Now this put a floating number create that.
And if you look at L2 then we've got that list.
There it is.
It contains all four different types of data that we'll be looking at.
So that's pretty handy.
You can make a list as long or as short as you like and the next thing is actually a list can contain
a list as its elements so let's say L3 can be a list of let's say the sentence How're you that will
say.
And number 55 and then we'll add one of our existing lists into there so my first list in there.
So let's run that and look at a list so you can see that we've got the text so that's one element which
is a string.
Then we've got an integer and then the next element is a list.
Now lists of lists are a bit more of a complex topic and we'll get to it further on the course when
we're dealing with matrices will need that.
But it's just good to know for us for now that you can indeed do that you can create a list that not
only contains a mix of data types but actually contains even lists within itself.
Now what I wanted to show you was another function.
So sort of delimiter here.
And look at the next function which is.
Range.
I know we haven't talked about functions a lot.
In fact we've actually touched on range a bit but in general we haven't talked about a lot of our functions
and that tutorial is coming.
Don't worry it's just round the corner.
But nevertheless we will need this function in order to learn how to generate more this.
So here's an example function we're going to be looking at his range which we used.
If you remember for our four loops when we need to generate a range of numbers that we would like to
iterate over.
So let's have a look now.
So if I were on range 15 what I get is a range or to 15.
Now bear with me which is going to change this code a little bit.
We're going to say a list we want to change a range into a list and then we get this.
And I would like to explain all of bit.
So this is Python 3.
So in Python 3 range is an iterator or as some say it's a generator.
It used to be different so in Python 2 range.
So in Python 3 this is the same as x range in Python 2.
So in Python 2 when you used to call range which you would get right away would be a list like this
.
So you just get a list and as beautiful you can iterate over it you can work with it and so on.
So why did this change in Python 3.
Well in Python 3 this change because a lot of the time range is used not because we actually need that
list and need access to it.
I needed to be stored in memory but because a lot of the time we just want to perform some concern aggregation
or calculational over that list then we don't really need the list itself.
So for instance you might want to iterate over that list too you might want to look at the some of that
list or perform some other mathematical operation.
And in that case take up memory for that whole list is not really sensible and therefore in Python 3
.
Now when you create range 15 what it does is it creates this iterator or generator kind of object.
And that means that it will still have the values when you need them but it just won't store them in
memory.
So if you do actually want to change it into a list like we do in our case so we want to create a list
of 15 values of 15 integers 0 to 14.
In that case in Python 3 you need to type in List Range 15.
So basically this used to be in the x range function.
Python 2 and now they decided to change it to the range function so most of the time if used range you
will be using it for these reasons.
But if you actually want a list then you need to put the list word with brackets around range.
So there we go.
And why are we looking at this function because it's very convenient to generate sequences of numbers
instead of sitting there and typing out one two three four five six seven and so on.
It's much easier.
So there's that less or much easier to say.
Let's say we want to put in a memorable ads that say X is like that.
And then we want to look at X..
There it is.
Or we could have said just y equals the list range.
And how many elements do you want.
In total we want so I'll show you in a second how we're going to do that.
So for starters if we want to start from zero we would say eight right and then we'll look at why you'll
see it goes from zero to 7.
But in our case we want to start for one and you can also do that with list range.
So here you would say is red equals a list range.
And here you would say where to start.
So usually if you just specify one value that is where you want to.
And so from 0 up to this value not including this value.
But if you want to start a specific point you just say one Colma That's value.
So if you're on this now and look ahead you'll see that it starts at 1 goes to 7.
So let's practice again let's say Zed 2 and let's say we want to start at 100.
I don't want to go up to 120.
If we run that and look at it two you'll see that we've got that list.
Hundred hundred one.
And so on 119.
Once again remember that this last one is not inclusive so if you actually wanted 120 you type in 121
here were on this line as well.
And there it is 120.
And one more parameter that you can specify for range.
Let's call this double you and let's make this a bit less let's say up to 110 111 110 inclusive.
You can specify what step.
So by default the step is one.
And that's what we're seeing here every time it's incremented by 1 you can specify a different step
you can say for instance to see if I say two.
And I look at Double you you'll see that we get only that even numbers between 100 and 110 because 111
because they a hundred 102 104 and so on.
So if you want something else you could say with a step of 10 from 100 to 200.
Two hundred and one for example.
So if we on that look at w 2 you'll see that we have a 100 110 120 all the way to 200.
So it's a very handy tool in your arsenal if you just want to generate numbers from 0 up to certain
number then you just specify that one number like we did here or you can specify the start to finish
or you can even specify the start the finish and the step.
And it is a convenient tool because it allows you to create lists very quickly and you can use those
for iterations or you can use those for actual computations and just for practice.
Basically it's very handy for practice as well.
So there we go that's how we create lists in Python.
There are several methods we looked at the square Braughler and bracket's method and we looked at using
the range function combined with the list function have a go at that.
Play around with those methods see what kind of lists you can create.
And in the next tutorial we will continue working with lists like for you then and until next time decoding